How to install fvwm-crystal
#############################################################################

For Crystal to work you need working FVWM installation. For more experience
you can install additional software. All is described below.


### Installation of FVWM ####################################################

FVWM is available on project homepage, http://www.fvwm.org. Additionally this
window manager is in many distributions, so chcek yours - it can make
installation simplier. Here is described process of installation from sources.

You need at leas FVWM 2.5.8. Grab sources from:
ftp://ftp.fvwm.org/pub/fvwm/version-2/fvwm-2.5.8.tar.gz

Unpack it somewhere. In doc/patches/ directory of Crystal sources sits small
patch for FvwmIconMan - it will add one option to this module, making it
possible to remove iconified windows from IconMan. If you want that ability,
copy this patch "FvwmIconMan.patch" to fvwm source tree and apply it:

patch -p1 < FvwmIconMan.patch

OK, FVWM is ready for configuration, so launch ./configure script. It should
check for libraries and make Makefile scripts. Finished settings table should
look simiraly to this:

  With Gettext Native Lang Support?   yes (libc)
  With PNG image support?             yes
  With ReadLine sup. in FvwmConsole?  yes
  With Shaped window support?         yes
  With Shared memory for XImage?      yes
  With Session Management support?    yes
  With Mouse strokes (gestures)?      yes
  With Xft anti-alias font support?   yes (version 2)
  With XPM image support?             yes
  With Xrender image support?         yes

Here are included only those entries, which are needed, others can be
available or not.

If all is configured properly, you can now 'make' and 'make install' FVWM.
Debian users can create .debs issuing command make 'deb-dist'.

If all processed fine, FVWM is installed and ready. Proceed to next part...


### Installation of additional software #####################################

XMMS

Good sound player. Some are claiming it because lack of a good GUI... So
Crystal brings it's own GUI for xmms :). Player windows are hidden by default,
you can control playback using keyboard shortcuts or panel buttons. Package
for your distribution will be fine.

XMMS-Shell

Needed by Crystal to provide even more control on XMMS. Package from your
distro should be fine.

XMMSFind

Good plugin for XMMS, gives you the ability to open 'Jump to' window. You can
grab it from http://xmmsfind.sourceforge.net/; extract, compile and install
(usual way). Now start XMMS, enable XMMSFind plugin and have fun :)

aumix

Sound mixer, used to change volume levels. Version from your distribution
should be fine.

aterm

Default terminal emulator in Crystal; supports transparency. Your distro has
it :)

xdaliclock

Small transparent clock. Included in your distro.

habak

Very good wallpaper changer. It has options for simple edition of wallpapers,
make it interlaced, write text on your desktop in TTF font, etc. Unfortunately
it's in Polish, but you just need to 'make' (needs imlib2). You can copy it
somewhere to your $PATH directory and it works. Grab it from
ftp://ftp.linuxpl.org/fvwm-crystal/tarballs/habak-0.2.1.tar.bz2

Now it's time to install Crystal itself :)


### Installation of Crystal #################################################

It's simple. Currently there is nothing to compile, just copy everything what
is in 'crystal/' directory to '/usr/share/fvwm/crystal'. You can copy it to
another directory if you want, but then add correct path to your
'~/.fvwm/.fvwm2rc' (see below). All path starting with 'crystal/' are relative
to path where you put Crystal configuration files. Copy all scripts from
'bin/' to '/usr/bin'.  That was a system part of install.

Now the user part. Make '~/.fvwm/' directory, and create/edit file
'~/.fvwm/.fvwm2rc'. In this file write a line below:

Read /usr/share/fvwm/crystal/init

Save this file. If you want to use "Docklet" for dockable program icons, such
as Psi or Gabber, copy file 'crystal/user/Docklet' to
'~/.fvwm/Docklet'. There is also available sample 'ApplicationPanel' file,
which provides a small panel from where you can start programs. You can copy
it from 'crystal/user/ApplicationPanel' to
'~/.fvwm/ApplicationPanel'.

If you want to have a menu on the desktop with LMB, copy file
'crystal/user/ApplicationMenu' to '~/.fvwm/ApplicationMenu'. Crystal will
automatically pick it upon next restart and set a menu for you.

If you want to have transparent terminal windows, you can copy a file from
crystal sources, 'crystal distribution/doc/examples/Xresources' to
'~/.Xresources'. It will set transparent background and no scrollbars.

You should also copy sample Xsession file, from
'crystal distribution/doc/examples/Xsession' to '~/.Xsession'. It will set
fvwm as default window manager and launch script 'wallpaper-changer' at the
start of
X session (it get's wallpapers from '~/wallpapers/' directory, put there some
images).


### Finish ##################################################################

Now, if you are starting your X session from console, just type 'startx' and
FVWM should start. If you use GDM/KDM/XDM, you have to select session
'Default' (only if you don't have 'FVWM' in your session list, otherwise
select this).

